Hey there.
I'd introduce myself,
but it doesn't really matter.
What does is that there's
this problem
I've been trying to solve
for the longest time,
and inspiration has
finally struck.
Uh, I mean,
I could be going crazy.
I've definitely been accused
of that before.
But this artifact, I think,
is telling me
you're the one who can help me.
But trust me, I get it.
Why the hell would you help me?
Well, for starters,
and speaking from experience,
I don't think anyone deserves
to be thrown in a dark hole
and forgotten about.
Last, but not least,
I'll get you out of here
if you do.
Hmm?
Bravo!
Next up, Father Capulet,
as portrayed by Wade Rivers.
And don't forget
my scene partner,
the Tribrid, as Tybalt.
If we can find her.
A dramatic entrance, indeed.
Looks like I'm not late enough.
Come now, you don't wish to let
your scene partner down,
do you, Ms. Mikaelson?
You know,
life is really just a series
of disappointments,
so that's a
better lesson
than Shakespeare.
I understand
you're going
through a rough patch.
Well, I feel like if
you understood that,
you'd probably get
why I don't really
want to dramatize the story
of undying teenage love.
You know,
especially when it
does end with dying,
and then not dying,
and then him ditching you anyway
when he promised nothing
would ever come between you two.
And scene.
You two have gotten close,
at least from what I've
seen around school.
We have History together--
uh, capital-H History--
and Gym,
but we're not friends
or anything like that.
Hey, Dr. Saltzman.
I'm sorry I can't help,
Mr. Williams, but if I see MG,
I'll definitely let you know.
Yeah.
I had MG compel Ethan
to steer clear of him weeks ago.
Those two
should not be hanging out.
Yeah, Ethan said they're not,
so I doubt that's the reason
MG has skipped school
the last three days.
You get that
locator spell done?
Great.
Let's see.
I don't like that look.
Old habits die hard,
so I keep up with any reports
of animal attacks in the area.
That's a good way to keep
a lookout for Malivore monsters.
Except...
a hiker was found dead
in Grove Hill last night.
Suspiciously close
to right where MG is now.
Wait, do you think
something happened to him?
I'm more worried
about what he's already done.
I'll get my bag.
♪ I'm coming with the rats
and the roaches ♪
♪ Never turn my back... ♪
I don't need a pep talk
or ice cream or twin cuddles.
Well, you controlled
yourself better
than on your school tour
with Lizzie.
So points for that.
Maybe I'm a little upset about
how things ended with Landon.
But it's no one's
problem but mine.
Great.
Seems totally under control.
In which case,
maybe you can help me
with something?
Does it involve punching things?
Possibly. Lizzie went
on this witch-y wellness retreat
that Dad thought
would be a good idea,
but I haven't heard
from her
in over a week.
I think that she might be
in trouble.
Oh...
Nice shot, nice shot.
Whoo! All right, that's game.
Hit the showers.
I don't know
what's more shocking--
that you hit that shot
or that you guys shower.
Well, you're definitely
new around here.
'Cause everyone knows
I ball hard.
Yeah, I'm not touching that one.
Uh, you dropped
something.
Newest member of the pack
always cleans up.
Everyone knows that.
Apparently not.
Hey, it's nothing
personal, okay?
Brutus did it for,
like, a year.
That's just the way
we do things in a pack.
Maybe that should change.
Werewolf lesson
number two--
never question
the alpha's rules.
Ever.
If the alpha
makes the rules,
how do you become the alpha?
Well, that's easy.
And hard.
You want to be the man,
you gotta beat the man.
Come on.
No.
You gotta beat the woman.
Alpha challenge.
Alpha challenge! Whoo!
So much for the element
of surprise.
We're too exposed out here.
We should head into the woods,
see if we can find the camp,
and try to lay eyes
on Lizzie.
Or... we could just
introduce ourselves.
And what if we walk into a trap?
You're acting really weird
for someone
who's supposed to be worried
about her missing sister.
Lizzie!
Namaste.
I'm so glad
you guys are here.
You made really good time.
You knew we were coming?
Jo and I
have been talking
about it since I got here.
But I still
can't believe
that you were so open to it.
Mm.
Me, neither.
Come.
I'll show you around.
Peace of mind awaits.
Like I said...
trap.
This looks... great.
It looks like Witchapalooza.
Which is great,
because you could
use some healing.
Jo told me
all about Andon-Lay.
Did she?
Every gory detail.
Him dumping you
like that?
Total dick move.
We don't worry about dicks here.
No boys allowed.
So you'll forget about
birdbrain in no time.
I bet. Everyone here
looks like they're on drugs.
It's not like that, Hope.
This is a
wellness retreat,
for witches, by witches.
Well...
Andi.
She's so amazing.
She's been a real mentor to me.
How exactly
did she help you?
Andi reframed
my former,
limiting mindset
to reflect my emotional goals.
Okay, I'll say it.
This feels a little cult-y.
We're just
a collection
of like-minded individuals,
all following the teachings
of a brilliant and
charismatic leader.
Mm-hmm.
Right, make that
a lot cult-y.
What's with all the crystals?
Each color represents a step
on the pathway to enlightenment.
So the blue one
you're wearing...
It's the top step.
Which means that I get to
take part in next week's
sacred purification ritual.
What lands you
on sacred dirt duty?
Oh.
Don't mind Samantha.
She was Andi's star pupil,
until I got here.
And then
her petty jealousy and anger
knocked her
down a peg--
well, several--
into the red.
That's why it's
so important
to stay focused
on your own path.
Afternoon enrichment.
All colors on the crystal path
are welcome.
Come on.
You guys have to meet Andi.
I told you
I didn't want any help.
In my defense,
I didn't know that this was
what help looked like.
We don't have to stay.
We do.
Because something weird's
going on here.
And we're not leaving
unless Lizzie comes with us.
Hopefully willingly.
I don't fight with girls.
Except when you're knocking
them down in a pickup game
or sparring with them.
No, like, a real fight--
to the death,
if that's what it takes.
And I don't plan on
starting now.
Hey, glad we can both agree
on not dying.
So, what if I
challenge you
to something else?
That's not in the rules.
But what is
in the rules
is that the alpha
can't turn down any challenge,
no matter what
it entails.
Okay.
What do you have in mind?
I saw an old pool table
in storage
when I was picking out
some stuff for my room.
Deal.
Good luck.
You're gonna need it.
I want to welcome
all our new faces.
I know you're here
because you're struggling.
Believe me...
I have, too.
I've lived in darkness
for so many years,
which is why I have
dedicated myself
to helping other witches
reach the light.
Lizzie,
would you help me
demonstrate how we do that?
It would be my honor.
Think of this crystal,
and the ones linked to it
that we all
wear, like...
a mood ring.
We ask all
new arrivals
to lay their
hands on it,
to discover where they'll
be beginning their journey.
My ancestors' coven
believed that we were ruled
by our emotions,
and that if we could
learn to take control
of our emotional state,
that we could take back control
of our lives.
Live them to the fullest.
That's wonderful,
Lizzie.
Though I expected nothing less
from you.
The beautiful blue color
that Lizzie has just shown us
represents complete
purity of thought.
The elimination
of all negative feelings
preventing us
from living free,
happy and
fulfilled lives.
This is the ideal
you should all
strive to attain.
This is...
enlightenment.
Now, could I have
a less accomplished volunteer?
Someone who needs help
controlling negative emotions.
It's Hope, right?
Oh, I didn't raise my hand.
So you don't harbor
any negative emotions?
I just don't need
your help controlling them.
When we aren't
in control,
it's difficult to trust
those who are.
Oh, no, I don't trust you
because you're a fraud.
Then, please.
Come up and prove it.
I'm so sorry.
Bringing you here
was a bad idea
and so is you
going up there.
Okay.
I'll touch your rock.
But I think it's crystal clear
what kind of mood I'm in.
You have extraordinary power.
I'm not sure I'm capable,
but let me try to help.
I didn't say you could touch me.
But I'm so glad you did.
Suddenly,
I feel better.
This is a power my coven has
spent generations mastering.
Empathic transference.
It's why I must
always wear gloves.
Skin-to-skin contact
with an empath
can feel overwhelming
for the uninitiated.
I was so angry
at my ex-boyfriend, but...
I don't know,
I-I just feel like I'm, um...
Enlightened.
You're free now.
There's no point in hiding
your emotional truth
when everyone can see it
for themselves.
I've been waiting for
someone like you, Hope.
You and I are gonna
do great things together.
Hi, Andi.
Sorry to bother you during
personal meditation time.
Can I come in?
Oh, I could use the, uh,
the fresh air.
Where's your crystal?
Actually, that's why I'm here.
I had a bit of a setback.
Oh. How-how big is a bit?
Oh. Huge, then.
I got a little jealous when
I saw you working with Hope.
Uh, saying all those things
about how great she is...
i-it's triggering for me,
because I've heard those things,
like, a million times before.
But I know that that is silly
because you chose me to help you
lead the purification ritual
next week.
So, uh,
if you could just
juice me back up.
Oh. I'm afraid I need
to conserve my energy.
Given recent events,
I've moved the ceremony up.
And by, uh, recent events,
you mean...
Hope is very, very special,
like you said.
She's so powerful,
we don't need to recruit
any more witches, so...
the ritual will happen
later this evening.
Oh, wh-what am I supposed to do?
You know the path
that those in the red must take.
I wish you well on it.
Son of a bitch.
That hiker was found
in these woods,
mauled to death
and drained of blood.
And now a member
of the search party
who was out looking for him
is missing, too.
This is a Malivore monster,
Dorian.
Since they showed up,
nearly all the blood
in Mystic Falls
has been on their hands.
Claws. Whatever.
That's the thing.
We're not in Mystic Falls.
We're in Grove Hill.
And so is MG.
Look, MG is a good kid,
and you know it.
I do. I do.
But good doesn't factor
into the equation
when we're talking
about Rippers.
I get it.
You don't want
what happened to your family
to happen to anyone else.
We don't know anything yet.
Okay?
So let's just find MG.
Dr. Saltzman...
MG.
I need your help.
There's a body...
Dorian, no!
Found him.
You're doing it wrong.
I'm sorry I'm not an expert
-at scrubbing skivvies like you.
-You will be.
'Cause I'll be back to blue
before you,
with that attitude.
Face facts.
We're both cherry red, Samantha,
which sucks hard enough,
so let's just call a truce.
Fine.
Oh, my God.
Andi's glove.
This isn't supposed to be
in the wash.
Give it to me.
I'll go take it back to her.
No. I don't think so.
Andi's gonna be so happy
when I return this,
she'll help me back to...
What the hell?
How is that even possible?
Let me see it.
There's so many things
I wanted to say to you,
just a minute ago, but...
now I feel above them all.
Good luck on your journey.
Go blue yourself.
I could use some help in here.
No, no. Not that kind.
I'm not tying him up.
I'm taking him home.
Good. We can put him in
the werewolf bunker, then.
We don't even know
what happened yet,
because you tranqued him
before we could ask.
Actually, we do.
I just found the body
of that missing
search party member
in the woods.
Just like MG said.
You still think
I should've waited
for him to rip your
throat out, too?
You used to hunt
vampires, Ric.
I thought you knew how
dangerous Rippers can be.
I guess you've changed.
I'm trying to.
Assuming the worst of people
has only ever brought out
the worst in me.
And I am not gonna condemn MG
until I hear his side of it.
In the meantime,
I got a body to bury.
Hopefully there won't be another
when I get back.
Oh, this is gonna be
a bloodbath.
Like, bloodier than
an actual fight to the death.
If she even shows.
♪ Whoo, whoo ♪
♪ I can't help it ♪
♪ Hey ♪
♪ Yeah, I can't help it... ♪
I wouldn't miss this.
Also, I'm a werewolf, too,
and I could hear you
talking crap down the hall.
Well, good.
Then you know I'm undefeated
at the Salvatore School.
♪ I can't help it ♪
This is your last chance
to back out.
Cool. Can I get the chalk?
♪ If I was tequila... ♪
You're my alpha,
so I feel like I got
to tell you this...
all the wolves used to
let you win.
♪ You ain't never gonna want
nobody else... ♪
Wait, what? Why?
Like I said,
you're the alpha.
♪ Feeling myself ♪
♪ Hey... ♪
Break for break?
Uh...
Ladies first.
♪ I can't help it ♪
Rack 'em.
♪ Whoo... ♪
You heard her, rack 'em.
♪ I-I-I can't help it ♪
♪ I-I-I
can't help it ♪
♪ Hey ♪
♪ I can't help it ♪
♪ Whoo ♪
♪ Yeah, I can't help it ♪
♪ I can't help it ♪
♪ I, I, I, I, I ♪
♪ I can't help it. ♪
You see that?
Whoa, what?
Yeah.
You're finally gonna be free.
And you deserve it.
I hate that it's
actually cute in here.
"Warning.
Avoid dermal contact.
Produces psychotropic effects."
Triad.
That's never good.
Who's there?
Maybe Ric was right.
Not about everything, but...
I do feel connected to you.
Colin Lafferty.
I've lost people I loved
the way your family lost you.
I'm sorry they won't get
the closure they deserve,
but maybe...
maybe "missing" is better
than knowing the truth.
But I'll check in
on your family.
And on the vampire
that killed you...
...so that this never
happens again.
Oh, damn.
Psst. Psst.
Hey.
Lizzie.
Where have you been?
It's a long story.
Hope was right, again.
It's definitely a cult.
Now let's get the hell out.
Mm. I've been feeling so much
better since we got here.
So was I, okay?
But did you miss
the part where I admitted
you were right?
Andi doesn't have
special powers.
She's a basic witch, a fraud.
Her crystal is blue all the time
because it's colored glass.
And that enlightenment
you feel
is some magic drug from Triad.
Eh, that's never good.
Right?
I don't know what
her connection is to them,
and frankly, I don't care.
Okay? We can figure that out
once we're gone.
If you trust me.
Of course we do. Let's go.
Oh, great. Now what's she up to?
Put your back into it, Samantha.
Hope? Jo? Are you okay?
We've never been better.
Oh, okay. In that case,
I'm gonna drive
back to school
and get some help and earplugs.
Ad somnum.
No. Stay with us.
You lying, traitorous phony.
I could say the same to you.
Sneaking in here
and breaking my things.
At least you can't
mind-control me.
Not currently.
I must admit,
I've been wondering
why that is.
Because one drop of this
on my gloves
is normally enough
to make every witch here
worship me.
Well, the gloves
are off now, bitch.
Maybe...
it's your brain
chemistry
or just your overwhelmingly
bad vibes.
You should have seen
what Triad did to witches
that stuff didn't work on.
Very un-feminist.
Well, it wasn't bad enough to
make you stop working for them.
No supernatural
ever worked for Triad.
We were imprisoned,
locked in cells and forced
to do their bidding.
Locator spells,
concealment spells,
even torture,
all the while being drugged
to stay compliant.
Well, maybe your sob story
would land a little better
if you weren't doing
the same thing
to every witch here.
Said the self-indulgent
daddy's girl who's never had
a real problem
in her life.
I've overcome a lot.
You're clearly not an empath,
so what's the ritual really for?
Sorry, that information is
for blue crystal witches only.
Speaking of...
You wanted to see me, Andi?
Your sister wants to join
tonight's event.
It's technically
against the rules,
but why don't you bring her down
for the grand finale.
After all,
the ritual requires
a human sacrifice.
You're getting murdered.
Yeah. I noticed.
I mean, have you
even taken a shot?
Just one.
I missed.
Oh!
Et tu Brutus?
Hey, I'm still your alpha.
Not for long, bruh.
Eight ball, corner pocket.
Sink it, and I'm
the leader of the pack, right?
Those are the rules.
I think I know
a way out of this mess.
Maybe Andi was right
for once,
and my negative emotions
are what kept her
from being able
to mind-control me.
So if I can do
the same thing to you...
...worth a shot.
Although you probably like
being mind-controlled--
because that was basically
our dynamic for years.
I don't know what you mean.
That's right,
you're independent
all of a sudden,
going to Mystic Falls High
all by yourself...
Oh, wait,
you're already back
at the Salvatore School.
I guess that phase lasted
about as long
as your Dark Josie bender.
And now you're here,
worried about me and Hope,
and completely neglecting
your own happiness with Finch
in the process.
I mean,
at least I'm trying
to be happy...
Are you seriously
pinning this on
me right now?!
You're the one
that indoctrinated us
into a freaking cult, and I'm...
Back to normal.
You are brilliant
and I love you.
I know. Where's Hope?
She's at the ritual.
But there's no way
that you can get
close enough to Andi
to pull that stunt.
Sure I can.
You just need
to tie me up again.
ALARIC
Dorian.
I'm here.
I heard that growl,
followed a trail
of blood...
Yours, obviously.
Oh, man, is that a tooth?
I wonder who has
whatever this belongs to
in the monster pool.
You're not gonna
believe it, Ric.
Wendigo.
Come on.
It's never a wendigo.
Until today.
I got a few licks in
with the shovel
before I ran, but...
that thing hits a lot harder.
I'd be dead
if I hadn't found this place.
A cave...
stocked with a cooler
full of blood bags?
This is where
MG's been hiding out.
I was wrong about him.
I read his journal.
He's been helping people.
He needs to work on
his superhero name, but...
MG must've got the blood on him
from trying to stop the wendigo.
Come on,
let's get you out of here
before it comes back
for seconds.
Yeah.
Too late.
I don't think I can do this.
I thought you loved
drama class.
Just act like a brainwashed
idiot and get me on that stage.
Hope's feeling good now,
but I have a decade
of petty resentments
to spew
that'll change all of that
in a heartbeat.
Hope Andrea Mikaelson.
Jo, was there something
you wanted to say?
Well, aren't you
gonna say anything?
Yes. I am.
Hmm.
That crystal doesn't work
on you,
and blue isn't your color.
I appreciate the feedback.
I don't.
Hope, throw them both
in the hole
so we can get
this party started.
Wait.
I hate that I have to do this--
because all I've
ever wanted for you
is happiness-- but...
this isn't happiness.
And not just because Andi's
a fraud,
even though she is,
but because you're
lying to yourself.
You're mad at Landon, and you're
blaming him for the breakup.
But it's not all
Landon's fault.
And deep down, you know that.
Stop saying his name.
You've known
that you and Landon have been
biologically incompatible
since he literally dissolved
after having sex with you.
But you chose to
deny that fact,
and now you know
that neither you or Landon
can ever truly be
happy together.
What I know is that
I moved heaven and earth
to bring him back to me,
and he didn't even tell me
when he was still alive.
And then he left me
all over again.
Landon finally did
the one thing that
you weren't strong enough to do.
Hope... is that you?
That's the last of them, Hope.
Hurry up.
Sorry to keep you waiting.
This is the part
where you attack me
and deeply regret it later.
How do we kill this damn thing?
How the hell
am I supposed to know?
It's never a wendigo.
I doubt that's gonna do it.
Never doubted you, rock.
Thanks for distracting him
for me.
Wendigos have hearts of ice.
It's their weakness,
like sunlight for a vampire.
Unless you use that weakness
and make it your strength.
I had wendigo
in the monster pool.
Lizzie, wake up.
You're gonna be okay.
Cool.
My plan worked.
There's only one last thing
to take care of.
Well?
Aren't you gonna say anything?
Don't maim her yet.
Not until she tells us what
this phony-ass retreat
was for.
I needed a lot of witches
with a lot of powerwho wouldn't ask any questions.
I knew how
the drug worked firsthand,
and I thought it would be easier
to catch flies
with honey
than vinegar.
What is the ritual for?
All I know is it was
a summoning ritual--
for what wasn't my concern.
I would've
raised the devil himself
for my freedom.
So you cut a deal.
With who?
It wasn't that long ago,
but it's just gone.
I can't remember who it was.
And I'm sure that
has nothing to do
with the Malivore Pit.
What I do remember
is that our deal
was bound by
an unbreakable covenant spell,
which means I will die
if I fail
to complete the ritual.
You're gonna fail.
Then the peace I will know
is that the three of you
will have to deal with
whatever my death raises.
I'm guessing she counts
as the human sacrifice
the ritual needs?
As much as I hate Andi,
that was a total boss move.
What's gonna happen now?
Well, when you combine Triad,
hole in the ground
and forgotten memories...
So much for peace of mind.
So... should we tell
ghost stories by the fire
while we wait for
whatever horrible thing's
gonna come crawling
out of there?
I know a scary one.
"The Tale of the Crappy Friend
Who Told You
You Deserved to Be Dumped."
I'm sorry about that.
It's okay.
I needed to hear it.
Just like you need to hear
that it's okay
to let yourself be happy.
Even if you're the only
one of us who is.
Well, at least
coming here wasn't all bad?
Mm.
Well, I'm guessing
it will be
once whatever Andi
drugged us with kicks in.
Hey, guys. I think
I figured out what Andi
was trying to do.
She's turning us into pandas.
Then she nailed it.
♪ 'Cause I got love ♪
♪ I-I-I-I've got love... ♪
Whoa.
Ah.
What did I just drink?
That's 150 proof
moonshine, my guy.
Wolves gonna wolf.
And this is the wolf
of the hour right here!
♪ I got my heart that's just
beating around the clock ♪
♪ 'Cause I got love,
I got love, I got love ♪
♪ And I got my family ♪
♪ As ... up as they are ♪
♪ 'Cause I got love,
I got love... ♪
You need a drink?
Not my thing.
Which I guess means
I have rules, too.
Hey, about that...
Maybe it's not fair to the pack
to just say whoever's the best
at fighting or whatever
is the best leader for them.
Just like
you scratching the eight ball
doesn't make me
better than you at pool.
Especially when you did it
on purpose.
Why?
You're right--
being good at those things
isn't why you should
be the alpha.
But seeing how much
it means to you,
how much you care
about the pack...
is another story.
Oh, you know, back in the day,
I would've called you weak
for throwing the game.
Well, then if you can change,
maybe the rules can, too.
Yeah.
He's gonna be fine.
Just a few
stitches and, uh,
one whopper of a lie
to his doctor later.
Oh, man.
Emma's gonna
be so pissed at me.
But not as pissed
as she would have been
had you not saved our asses.
Um...
it was the least I could do.
Considering how Mr. Williams
got hurt looking for me.
Well, we shouldn't have
worried about you.
Your journal
made that clear.
I'm-I'm trying.
But it's really hard
doing this all on my own.
Well, you could always
come back to school.
I mean,
especially now that the...
wendigo trashed your Batcave.
Before you, um,
you let me come back
and it's all good,
I think there's something
that you should know.
I didn't compel Ethan
when you told me to.
It-it was a mistake.
But I learned from it.
So, yeah, I want to come back.
But I don't want to stop
helping people, either.
Well...
let's do both.
Come on.
Let's go home.
Okay, hear me out.
Andi drugged us.
Just one drop of that liquid
that she had from Triad
was enough to control
everyone's minds,
and now I'm soaked in it.
Maybe that's why I'm losing it.
Lizzie, we're all pandas.
We're in this together.
We are in complete
pandagreement.
Okay, so
we're all seeing
the same thing now?
♪ Until I got high... ♪
Oh, good.
♪ I was gonna get up
and find the broom... ♪
Unless that's bad.
Guys, we have to
pull it together, okay?
We need to be ready to fight.
We are tripping balls, man!
I mean, we have enough
problems already.
Don't we always?
When has that ever stopped us
from fighting monsters?
Yeah, you're right.
I came here
because I thought
I was messed-up,
but look at me.
Look at my fur.
I am a badass panda.
Me, too.
That's it.
We set up a trap.
It's one of us
on each side of the hole,
and-and we blast it
with whatever spell
that we've got.
We have to focus,
'cause I'm sure that
when whatever Andi summoned
comes out of the thing,
it's gonna be...
Pandemonium.
♪ And I know why, yeah, hey ♪
♪ Because I got high,
because I got high... ♪
Panda Squad on three.
One, two...
That was fun.
Still high as a kite, but at
least we're not pandas anymore.
Oh, unfortunately, that's where
our good news ends.